you are watching adoramatv hi everybody
welcome to adoramatv I'm Mark Wallace
well this week's iPad app review is all
about blogpress a couple weeks ago I
showed you WordPress and we got a bunch
of email asking me to show you some
applications that will work for other
blogs in addition to WordPress and so we
found this great application called
blogpress and it works with all kinds of
blogs like blogger so let's take a
closer look at blogpress blogpress is an
application that allows you to manage
your blog's your posts and things like
that and you can work with more than one
blog now the cool thing when I go in
here to the setting so i'm going to say
add another blog you can see that not
only can you add wordpress blogs dish we
talked about a couple weeks ago but this
works with blogger and the nice thing
about that is a lot of non blogger blogs
use the blogger api meaning that even
though it's not a actual blogger blog
you could connect this to that blog
which is pretty cool it's also i want to
see how many times I can say blog in a
row now the other thing is you have some
built-in blogs so you have msn live
spaces WordPress movable-type typepad
livejournal drupal Junia tumblr and
Squarespace so all of these are
supported and so it's really really
simple to set something up so you just
choose the type of blog you have let's
say it was live journal then it's going
to ask you for your username and
password and then it'll go ahead and
connect so if you're not really tech
savvy you just want to connect something
to a blog this is an application that
will help you do that now I already have
two blogs set up it's the matchstick
blog and our snap factory blog that
we've shown you a couple times now let's
look at these settings a little bit
closer the first thing it's going to ask
you is what is the default blog now I
have snap factory as the default blog
now that's important because when you
create a new post by default it's going
to go to your default blog the cool
thing is you can make a post that goes
to all of your blog's simultaneously
I'll show you how to do that a little
bit later also it's going to ask you
where you want to save photos so that
when you have photos that you're posting
on your blog's exactly where do you want
to save those and so based on each blog
that you are you can go in here and
change preferences for each blog you can
tell it where exact
you want to save your photos or you can
add a full photo album you can even
upload videos and so you can add a
YouTube account this has some features
like you can geotag your posts you can
automatically have posts show up in
Twitter and on Facebook you can add a
blog signature so if you have a
signature that you want to put at the
bottom of each of your posts you can add
it there you can change the editor
options and how that works and then also
you have support here frequently asked
questions and you can go straight to the
developer so this is really a
well-supported application if you need
help now once you have all of that done
and again it only takes a couple seconds
to set up a brand new blog we can go in
there something to go into matchstick
because this is a blog that was showing
you before and it the first thing that
will do is it's going to go in and it
will pull in all of the posts that are
on the server so right now I'm going to
go in here to the big announcements so
these are HTML tags if you're not
familiar with them you don't really need
to worry about them too much just avoid
changing those if you want to know more
about them you can buy it there are tons
of books at most bookstores that will
teach you HTML now we can go in here and
I'll go into another blog entry this is
one called mark wallace who are you and
what is matchstick all about you can see
that here we have another blog entry
that we can edit if we need to now if
you want to create a brand new post just
go down here to this create new icon I
can type in a title now normally the
keyboard will pop up I'm using a
bluetooth keyboard to make this a little
bit easier on myself so i'll type in a
title and say this is my title and once
i have that done i can go in here and i
can actually start typing my posts so
this is my blog post this is cool now
you notice that when i'm typing this no
HTML shows up which is really neat so
the HTML is only showing up for things
that you bring in outside of this
application if you do want to edit the
HTML you can click on this HTML button
right here and you can start inserting
HTML so if you want to create something
like a hyperlink you can push this it's
going to ask you what the link is I'll
say WWF factory calm and the text that I
want to show up is my web
ight and you can choose to put that in a
new window or not then I will say done
and there it is HTML pops in so if
you're not familiar with HTML no problem
it has a little HTML cheat sheet right
there now once we have that in there
let's say I want to add some media
there's a little camera right there so I
can go in here and again I can just go
to a save photo and click that and then
that's going to bring it in right there
in my post and when I tap on that you
also can see that you can change the
thumbnail width and height you make sure
it stays in proportion you can change
the alignment you can even link to a
full-size image if you want or you can
remove that so it's really really easy
to post different images and once that's
in there you can keep typing along so
we'll just go down here and I can say
this is more of my post and it's about
that easy now once you have that all
done you can hit save and you have all
of the options that you would expect so
you can publish it right away now this
isn't finished so I don't want to
publish this to my blog so i can save
this and preview it i can save it as a
local draft that's great if you're
working offline and you have a
connection to the internet you can save
it as an online draft which means it
goes to your blog but is not public or
you can save it and create a brand new
one so if you're cranking out posts
maybe add a show or journalists or
something you can really quickly do that
so I'm going to say save and preview so
this is going to preview this and now I
can look and see what this would
probably look like on my blog now it
doesn't have all my style sheet and
doesn't have my blogs theme so it's not
exactly accurate but it gives you a
close look at what it would probably
look like once everything is done so
i'll say then now i can always go in
here and hit save and i could publish it
if I want or I can do something else
like this card and up here you'll see
that I have a local draft called this is
my title now if I want to I can just
swipe that and hit delete and my local
draft goes away and I can go in here and
edit any of these other things now one
of the differences you'll see between
this and
the wordpress app that we showed you
earlier this is not words wordpress
specific so your comments and pages
you're not able to update those from
this application but everything else is
fully functional just like the wordpress
app and this will allow you to do things
on more than just a wordpress app which
is really really nice and it's very very
functional now let me show you one more
thing if we have a new post and right
now it's going to go to the snap factory
blog i can hit this right arrow and i
can select as many blogs as i want so I
could have eight or nine or ten
different blogs and save when I publish
that that will publish it to every
single blog i've selected and so you
could post to a blogger a wordpress site
a square space all those different types
of things right from one application
which is really really nice and that's
what set this appt apart from other
blogging apps well that's blogpress it's
not a free app it costs about five bucks
but it's well worth the money if you're
updating your blog on the go and because
it's compatible with all kinds of
different blogs it's really really a
stellar application to install on your
iPad well thanks so much for joining us
this week remember we'll be right back
here next week I hope to see you then
this episode is brought to you by
adoramatv visit the Adorama Learning
Center where you'll find photography
tips and techniques links to the gear
used in this episode and related videos
for all the latest photography video and
computer gear visit adorama.com and the
next time you're in new york city visit
our store located on eighteenth street
between fifth and sixth avenue